One last thing to talk about, and
that is this idea of speaking of
putting things in front of customers,
prototyping, right?
Used to be in the days of Sketch, you'd
build all your fancy UI in Sketch, and
then you'd go to Zeppelin or something
else to build a prototype out of it.
In Figma, you can actually make
an interactive prototype in the same
tool that you're designing everything,
right?
And there's a bunch of different
ways that you can do this.
Let me go find one of my
old buttons from earlier.
Do we think this one has all the states?
Yeah, it does.
Okay, so let's go to the main
component in this case.
So you have two ways of doing this.
You can wire up the moving
between frame and frame, but
you can also make
the components interactive.
But the caveat is that you can basically
only swap between the variations,
right, of a given component,
the variant states, right?
You can't swap instances on the fly, but
you can toggle between
the different variations.
So if I go back to this button,
where is it?
It's over here.
If I click on it, you can see that I
can style it, all that kinda fun stuff.
But if I switch over to this Prototype
tab, you can see that actually,
what I can do is I got this
little fun thing over here,
and I can click it, all right?
Go to that one.
And I can say on hover, this is one of
the questions from earlier, on hover,
change it to the hover state, right?
And then once they're hovering,
on click change to the active state.
So now you can kinda simulate, and you can
do an animation as well, like dissolve.
Smart animate will, if you have a toggle,
it'll try to figure
out what it should do with the toggle,
and stuff along those lines.
And it might not be perfect,
but you know what?
It's still pretty impressive.
And then we can dissolve as well.
And so now if you had this button in
a prototype, as they click on it,
you'll see all of these different states.
You would also consider doing that to your
base component as well, cuz then all of
them will inherit it, and if you
change any of these properties, right?
So if I made this into a bunch of
variations as well, then theoretically,
I can do it in one place,
cuz I have the problem that I had before,
which is, yeah, this button now does that,
this button does not.
So can you reverse engineer
some of this stuff, sure.
Is part of the process of spending our
time together figuring out what you do at
the very beginning?
It's like, can you refactor your code?
Sure, of course you can.
Can you also do things in the beginning
that make you happier later?
Absolutely, right?
So having a base component that has
some of these basic kinds of states,
having it in your checkbox on click.
And then having all the different
instances that you can swap between
derived from that base component becomes
a very powerful concept here, right?
And combining a lot of these strategies
that we kinda learned in isolation into
larger pieces that you can pose out of
these strategies is incredibly powerful,
as I said.
So we can do that.
And let's go back to this Prototypes page,
and we'll kinda just toss it in there for
a second just to see it.
We'll kind of just put in here for
a second, and
we'll find out some other problems
with this prototype as we do that.
Now, this one, I'll probably have some of
the other frames in here that I have to
deal with in a second.
You'll see Enable interactive components.
So that's what we did.
I might end up with starting
from one of these other frames.
We'll handle that in a second.
So Figma's building a prototype for me.
As you can see as I hover,
somewhat subtle.
I get a little shadow.
And as I click on it, it becomes active.
And there's also as I'm pressing it down,
and stuff along those lines, and
I can create a state that when my
mouse leaves, it goes back up.
You can kinda create all
the interactions and wire it up.
But while we're looking at this, there are
some other problems with this UI, right?
It's a prototype, sure.
But what if we wanted this bar to
be sticky at the bottom, right, or
this one be sticky at the top?
But normally, these little help things
that just kinda float there forever,
right, there's some other problems that
we need to solve on top of wiring up
all the additional states for this button.
So let's kind of just
look at that real quick.
This has its own tab, so you can always
just go back to your designs as well.
You can see its got a little play symbol,
which is awesome.
So let's just remove that button for
a second.
There's a bunch of different
strategies that we can use.
You can see we have
another problem over here,
which is where we're gonna wanna
do the back and forth scrolling.
Or if we had our data table, and you know
how sometimes it's not always great on
mobile, and so I didn't put one in here.
But you might have a table
that has some rows, and
you can scroll just the table itself,
an infinite scroll table as well.
We have one of those in the temporal UI,
where it's kind of like, yeah, it's bound
to a box, but if you need to scroll in
that little viewport, you can as well.
And the same strategy will kinda work for
multiple pieces.
So what we'll do real quick
together is kind of look at some
of the strategies here as well.
One of the things I will also point out
is that if you would like to see it in
various different devices, that's also
a thing that you can do as well, and
I'll put a nice little
phone frame around it too.
So we've got two strategies here, and
these are also how to do the data table,
which we'll kinda see in a second,
just for the funsies.
The interactive component is all
documented down here as well.
But let's also look at how to wire
up some of the other pieces of this.
So for instance, if we wanna move between
frames, so let's say we wanna move from,
if they click this one,
I wanna move to this frame here.
You'll notice that when I
am in the Prototype tab,
I have this fun little thing here.
Now, if you are in design,
you won't see it, so
you're wondering where's
my arrow draggy thing?
That's super fun.
You have to be in the prototype view.
But I could say well, okay,
when they click on this first one,
I wanna move them to this frame, right?
Cool, and
we can do what the animation looks like.
So we can do the iPhone
kinda slide-in thing.
We'll put that in place.
And when they hit the Buy Now button,
We wanna move them to the cart, right?
And the slide is once
you've picked an animation,
we'll usually just choose
to kinda keep doing it.
And we'll figure out a better
way to do this in a second,
which is to have maybe the cart do that,
but let's not do that just yet.
And we'll wire that up in a second.
The other thing we wanna do is have
those sticky headers and footers.
That's also relatively easy to do.
Go find the thing you wanna make state.
Under Constraints,
fix position when scrolling.
This only does anything in
the prototype view, but
you can do fix position when scrolling.
Let's do this for all of these.
Fix position when scrolling.
All right, so let's see.
Let's also do it for that Help button too.
We talked about that as from earlier.
So we can do that.
And now you can see that the header and
footer perform like
they should,
as if you did position sticky in CSS.
If I click this,
we kinda go into the view.
I can scroll down, hit Buy It Now,
we go into the cart, right?
Could I wire up each of these
buttons in every frame?
I could.
I don't want to, but I could.
The other option here is to grab this,
Make it a component.
And let's say in Prototype, We're
gonna say home, goes to the homepage.
I don't actually have anything for
the heart.
We could say that the cart
goes to the cart page.
All right, and
then what I'll do is I will remove these,
And I will bring in my new version.
Again, this is what happens when
you don't organize your components.
So let's see where it is,
let's go for footer, sweet.
And you can see this one is
technically wired up the same way,
that its main component was as well.
And the nice part is if you ever changed
what that main component is doing,
it'll change all of the instances as well.
So now we can put them all in there.
I'm pretty sure I have to reset
that fix position scrolling.
Also, let's zoom in a little bit and
get these straightened up.
Let's see,
make sure that was actually in the frame.
All right, sweet.
And so now, theoretically,
cuz they all inherit from that one
that has the interactions wired up.
That one's up.
I didn't make them sticky again,
but let's see.
Let's see what I missed with that cart.
I mighta,
Think I missed one of those arrows there,
so put this one in place.
Cool, navigate to that one as well,
number three.
So you can always change these as well,
just with that menu.
But if we start from this one,
for instance,
Scroll down, Whoop,
figure that out in a second.
My touch targets are a little off here,
but I can have the carts, and
they'll all kinda wire up
where they're supposed to be.
And I can move through the UI like that,
and so you can begin to, again,
create these prototypes.
What we do is, we have basically
before we build the UI temporal,
Canvas basically makes mock-ups that,
honestly, by the time we're done
with them, look shockingly like
what I'm about to build, right?
In this case right now,
I've built the UI, but
she's got some new features
that she's also showing.
So we're using the Figma mock-ups.
And in a lot of cases, sometimes
the people we're interviewing don't know
that this is the mock-up and
not the UI that we currently
have in beta right now that you
can pull down and use, right?
So we meet up with the customers of
various companies that I can't name, and
we show them these mock-ups, and
we kinda talk them through it.
We let them like,
what happens if I navigate there?
And we've got a lot of this worked out.
And then for some of these new features,
after we're done interviewing
the customers, then we go ahead, and
I'll go ahead and have my team build
the actual UI, making sure that it
kinda behaves the way they want.
Rather than ship something into
production, and then wait for
people to either complain, or
file bugs, cuz as frontend engineers,
bugs are an interesting thing.
If something doesn't go into the database
in the back end, that's a bug.
If somebody doesn't know where
the pagination is, is that a bug?
If the pagination doesn't work, I need
to put a ticket on my team's backlog.
If it's like, we've moved something
around, and it's confusing for our users,
right, cuz it made sense to us,
cuz we were intentional about it.
For them, we sprung it on them, right?
It's super tricky, right?
And that's not necessarily a bug, per se.
It might still result in work for
my team, but that is different,
and we need to kinda figure out
how to triage those things.
So finding those things
out before we ship, right,
even though we're still in beta,
is super, super useful in this case.
And so Figma allows you to kind
of put together these screens.
And again, yeah, it's like,
don't make fun of my son's artwork.
But generally speaking,
you can get to a pretty compelling
high fidelity prototype fairly quickly,
right, as well, cool.
And so like I said, we've got a little
piece on the interactive components.
I'll just kinda show you
the data table piece,
which is all I did was I took that
data table that we had before.
And it's funny,
step two is there is no step two, right?
All I did was I took this initial
content in here that was overflowing.
This is the one that has way too many
things in it as I expand it, and
I just go to Prototype, and
I say Horizontal scrolling, or I'm sorry,
Vertical scrolling.
And now they can scroll
through this table.
Let's actually implement it in this
view right here real quick, and
this will be kind of
our last little hurrah.
I wanna have it so
they can kind of flip through things,
like you kinda see in a lot
of different interfaces.
So this component, as you can see,
it expands, right?
What we can do in this case is we'll say
horizontal scrolling is now a thing.
Yeah, let's do this one,
horizontal scrolling.
It had the larger parent component.
So we can just say that okay, this
should be able to scroll horizontally,
even though it overflows the frame,
so it's clipped, right?
And you can't see it, but
there is more content here.
You can kinda see the hint.
And then ideally,
as they kinda flip through it.
And there is a Figma mobile app where you
can literally deploy this to your phone,
thumb around on it, and trick your friends
saying I built this out this weekend,
whatever.
But ideally,
you could also pass it around to figure
out does this interaction make sense?
I think for side projects,
this is super useful too, right?
Cuz one of the things I did when I was in
education was we'd build these things for
students and teachers.
We start with these prototypes before
we build a thing of put in a classroom,
does this actually make sense is super
useful before you build a whole bunch of
stuff, cool.
[LAUGH] One of the jokes in the chat
is just ship the prototype.
I wish, and then I can go back and
just chill.
So here we can scroll over.
We'll hit this.
>> What I did was I
went to the frame four,
added a horizontal scrolling to that.
And then I resized the box, so
it has something that scroll,
the frame container.
>> Yeah.
>> Cuz otherwise it's completely expanded.
So when you go-
>> I had to do that.
>> Yeah, exactly,
the container has to be smaller, but-
>> Yeah, I shrunk the container down.
>> Okay, and then you enabled
the scrolling on the container,
and yeah, there you go.
>> [LAUGH]
>> That feels good.
[LAUGH] I'm just gonna do this for
a few minutes.
So the idea that we can have things
that we interact with and scroll.
To make it more for a realistic prototype
experience beyond just moving between
frames and having buttons that
we can change the state of, and
doing all these interactions.
We can see in the prototype anything that
has a certain amount of overflowing of
its container,
we can actually go into that prototype,
find the part that we want to scroll.
It does need to overflow, right?
And we basically can turn on either
vertical or horizontal scrolling.
Or if you're gonna simulate a Google Maps
experience, you can do both, and
they can like pan around.
It will be limited by the bounds of
whatever the fictitious map that you have
in there, but again,
this isn't a real app.
This is the thing you're putting in
front your customers if they're trying
to go all the way from Minneapolis,
and continue scrolling to Paris, yeah,
depends on how big your image is.
But you go in there.
In this case, we took the content of that
data table we made in a previous exercise.
We turn on vertical scrolling.
And now you can see in the prototype
that I can kind of sit there and
scroll through it as well, and we could
add in a whole bunch of interactivity.
Again, this is no replacement for
our real day jobs, but
the ability to add certain pieces of
interactivity to your component and
be able to use them is
incredibly powerful.